Now for the feat I want to have the ankle joint at the heel and the heel pads all one piece on one object.
So I'll select that joint the heel and each one of these little rubber pieces I'll press P separate
by selection.
Now for the toe I'll select this joint the toe and the pads.
Separate by selection.
And we'll call this foot toe.
L..
All right so we've got that side done.
I need to go through and do the same thing to the objects on this side as well.
Now I realize as I select these fingers that they're still mirrored.
You see if I select this one over here and hit the tab key only this side goes into edit mode.
So I need to go through and apply every one of these mirror modifiers on these fingers.
So now when I hit the tab key I can see it and I can split it out and for the last piece here the toe.
I don't need to split it out because it's just it's own piece so I'll just select that and call this
foot toe Dot are the next thing I'd like to do is move the pivot points of the of each of the objects
to the appropriate place.
What we can do for ease of use I guess is to move the origin of each of the objects to where the object
is going to pivot and that will make it easier to snap the joints of the skeleton of the rig to where
they need to be.
So let's take a look at doing that for the main body here.
Let's just set the origin to geometry and see what happens so that just puts it there and that's fine.
I don't think that's a problem.
It's the limbs and the fingers that are going to be an issue.
I'll take this upper arm and set the origin to geometry and that will put it there.
And that's not exactly where I want it to rotate around by tab and edit mode and select this joint here.
This is really where I want it to rotate some of the press shift s and move the cursor to the selected.
And then if I tab out of edit mode back into object mode now I can move the origin to the 3D cursor
and there you go.
So that is where I want it to rotate.
So if I go to the rotate tool or push the Arkie you see that's where it's going to rotate.
That's what we want but it isn't so much these origins are these pivot points that are really going
to do the animating.
It's the rig or the armature that is going to do the animating I'm just doing this to make it easy to
snap those joints to these points.
So let me do this for the lower arm.
I want to tab into edit mode.
I want to select this joint.
I want to snap the cursor to the selected and then back in Object mode.
I want to set the origin to the 3D cursor and I need to do this for each of these objects so I'll do
that for the upper leg down here.
So the fact that joint snap the cursor to the selected and then set the origin to the 3D cursor.
Now for the toe I think I just want the cursor to be in the center of this object here in the center
of the joint.
So I'll snap the cursor to that and then I'll set the origin to the 3D cursor for that.
And now that should rotate around that point I would go.
Now for the hands they just need to go right into the center of the object so I'll just set origin to
geometry for the hands and the same for over here.
For the fingers the point of rotation should really be at the center of this cylinder here.
So if I just select that piece and snap the cursor to that and then snap the origin to the 3D cursor
that should be good right there.
And for the base of each of these fingers this here I think probably will want I don't know that it
will matter much.
I think what we're going to want to do is rotate these pieces around the center of the sphere.
Now the spotlight up here will hopefully rotate around this point here.
So what I need to do is actually select this fear with the L key and snap the cursor to it and then
select the spotlight and set the origin of that to the 3D cursor.
So now it should rotate around that point.
Well that should take care of the housekeeping chores we needed to do to begin the rigging process.
Up next we'll actually begin the rigging.